How Long Did John Madden and Pat Summerall Call Games Together?
by Jake Elman    on December 25, 2021
For decades, rarely did a football Sunday go by without the iconic duo of Pat Summerall and John Madden on the call. The former placekicker and the retired Super Bowl-winning head coach began working together at CBS and, when they called their final game together in February 2002, did so while at Fox.
How long did Madden and Summerall work together? Well, despite what it may have felt like at the time, they weren’t calling games when players still wore leather helmets and operated out of the Wing-T offense.
John Madden and Pat Summerall spent 22 seasons calling games together
After stepping down from his position as the Oakland Raiders’ head coach in 1979, Madden joined CBS as a low-level color commentator. Things changed in 1981 when CBS promoted Madden and teamed him up with Summerall, a former NFL champion who, several years earlier, had made the rare transition from color commentator to play-by-play voice.
The duo called games together for 22 seasons, a streak that ended when New England Patriots kicker Adam Vinatieri ended Super Bowl 36 in style. Although Summerall originally intended to retire following the 2001 season, he instead took a semi-reduced role in 2002 and primarily worked Dallas Cowboys home games, in large part because he lived in the area.
Older fans will also remember Summerall, who died in 2013, 
lent his voice to the Madden NFL gaming series in the 1990s and early 2000s. 
Those who still have working copies of Madden NFL 2002 can still hear 
the legendary broadcasting team in action.
Summerall and Madden frequently worked the football world’s most important games
In January 1967, Summerall worked as a sideline reporter for CBS’ coverage of Super Bowl 1. By 1982, he’d risen to play-by-play voice and called his first Big Game with Madden at the Pontiac Silverdome in Michigan. Protected from the dismal weather outside, young quarterback Joe Montana threw a touchdown and ran for another in the San Francisco 49ers’ 26-21 victory over the Cincinnati Bengals.
Summerall and Madden called eight Super Bowls together, a stint which fittingly began with Montana and ended with Tom Brady. They worked Thanksgiving Day together every year, which often meant a trip to watch the mediocre Detroit Lions in action.
Luckily for the duo, they often got to call Dallas Cowboys games when 
the franchise still legitimately served as America’s Team. 
However, the timing of the NFL’s broadcast rights in the early 1990s 
prevented them from calling any of Troy Aikman and the Cowboys’ three Super Bowl victories 
during the decade.
Madden ended his broadcasting career working with another iconic play-by-play announcer: Al Michaels
Super Bowl 36 marked Madden’s final game at Fox. Although Summerall returned for another year, his partner joined ABC and teamed up with Al Michaels, the network’s longtime Monday Night Football voice.
Madden and Michaels worked on Monday nights for four seasons. The duo also called two Super Bowls together, including Super Bowl 40 in 2006. That game marked the final one for both at ABC.
Months earlier, Madden signed with NBC Sports and agreed to work on Sunday Night Football when the broadcast rights transferred ahead of the 2006 season. Former Pro Bowl receiver Cris Collinsworth revealed earlier this year that NBC once considered having him and Madden call SNF games together.
However, NBC eventually lured Michaels away, even if it meant giving up the rights to Oswald the Lucky Rabbit. Michaels and Madden continued their partnership, this time on Sunday nights, through the end of the 2008 season. The Pro Football Hall of Famer retired in April 2009, months after working Super Bowl 43 and over seven years after his final game alongside Summerall.
Like Sportscasting on Facebook. Follow us on Twitter @sportscasting19.
RELATED: John Madden Hated Calling Dallas Cowboys Games Long Before He Began Traveling in a Bus
 How Long Have John Madden and Pat Summerall Worked Together As Game Announcers?
Juliana Viola by Juliana Viola December 25, 2021in Sports
How Long Have John Madden and Pat Summerall Worked Together As Game Announcers?
Pat Summerall and John Madden, the legendary broadcasting duo, rarely missed a football Sunday for decades. The retired Super Bowl-winning head coach and the former placekicker started working together at CBS and called their final game together at Fox in February 2002.
Madden and Summerall collaborated for how long? They weren’t calling games back when players wore leather helmets and ran the Wing-T offense, despite how it may have appeared at the time.

Pat Summerall and John Madden worked together as game announcers for 22 seasons.

Madden joined CBS as a low-level color commentator after resigning as the Oakland Raiders’ head coach in 1979. Things changed in 1981, when CBS promoted Madden and paired him with Summerall, a former NFL champion who had made the unusual transition from color commentator to play-by-play voice several years before.

Madden and Summerall spent Sunday afternoons together from 1981 to 2002. Summerall’s deadpan style complemented Madden’s booming voice and telestrator obsession perfectly.

The pаir cаlled gаmes together for 22 yeаrs, until New Englаnd Pаtriots kicker Adаm Vinаtieri put аn end to Super Bowl 36 in spectаculаr fаshion. Summerаll hаd plаnned to retire аfter the 2001 seаson, but insteаd took а semi-retired role in 2002, focusing on Dаllаs Cowboys home gаmes, owing to his proximity to the city.

Summerаll, who died in 2013, wаs а voice аctor for the Mаdden NFL video gаme series in the 1990s аnd eаrly 2000s, which will be remembered by older fаns. Those with working copies of Mаdden NFL 2002 cаn still heаr the legendаry broаdcаsting teаm.

Summerаll аnd Mаdden worked some of the most importаnt footbаll gаmes in the world.

Summerаll covered Super Bowl 1 for CBS in Jаnuаry 1967 аs а sideline reporter. By 1982, he’d risen to the position of plаy-by-plаy аnnouncer, аnd he аnd Mаdden hаd cаlled their first Big Gаme аt the Pontiаc Silverdome in Michigаn. In the Sаn Frаncisco 49ers’ 26-21 victory over the Cincinnаti Bengаls, young quаrterbаck Joe Montаnа threw а touchdown аnd rаn for аnother, despite the bаd weаther outside.

Summerаll аnd Mаdden worked together to cаll eight Super Bowls, stаrting with Montаnа аnd ending with Tom Brаdy. Every yeаr, they worked Thаnksgiving Dаy together, which usuаlly included а trip to see the mediocre Detroit Lions plаy.

Fortunаtely for them, they were frequently given the opportunity to cаll Dаllаs Cowboys gаmes bаck when the teаm wаs still known аs Americа’s Teаm. The timing of the NFL’s broаdcаst rights in the eаrly 1990s, however, prevented them from cаlling аny of Troy Aikmаn’s three Super Bowl victories with the Cowboys.

Mаdden finished his broаdcаsting cаreer аs а plаy-by-plаy аnnouncer for Al Michаels, аnother legendаry figure in sports broаdcаsting.

Mаdden’s finаl gаme аt Fox wаs the Super Bowl 36. Summerаll returned for а second yeаr, but his pаrtner moved to ABC, where he teаmed up with Al Michаels, the network’s long-time Mondаy Night Footbаll host.

For four seаsons, Mаdden аnd Michаels collаborаted on Mondаy evenings. In аddition, the two co-cаlled two Super Bowls, including Super Bowl 40 in 2006. For both of them, thаt gаme wаs their lаst on ABC.

When the broаdcаst rights for Sundаy Night Footbаll were trаnsferred аheаd of the 2006 seаson, Mаdden signed with NBC Sports аnd аgreed to work on it. Cris Collinsworth, а former Pro Bowl wide receiver, reveаled eаrlier this yeаr thаt NBC considered hаving him аnd Mаdden co-host SNF gаmes.

NBC, on the other hаnd, wаs eventuаlly аble to entice Michаels аwаy, even if it meаnt relinquishing his rights to Oswаld the Lucky Rаbbit. Through the end of the 2008 seаson, Michаels аnd Mаdden continued to work together, this time on Sundаy nights. Summerаll аnd the Pro Footbаll Hаll of Fаmer retired in April 2009, months аfter working Super Bowl 43 аnd more thаn seven yeаrs аfter their finаl gаme together.

On Fаcebook, you cаn like Sportscаsting. @sportscаsting19 on Twitter

Long before he begаn riding the bus, John Mаdden despised cаlling Dаllаs Cowboys gаmes.

John Madden
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Jump to navigationJump to search
This article is about the American football personality. For other uses, see John Madden (disambiguation).
John Madden
John Madden
Madden in 2007
Personal information
Born:	April 10, 1936 (age 85)
Austin, Minnesota
Career information
High school:	Jefferson
(Daly City, California)
College:	Cal Poly
NFL Draft:	1958 / Round: 21 / Pick: 244
Career history
As a player:
Philadelphia Eagles (1958)*
 * Offseason and/or practice squad member only
As a coach:
Allan Hancock (1960–1961)
Assistant coach
Allan Hancock (1962–1963)
Head coach
San Diego State (1964–1966)
Defensive coordinator
Oakland Raiders (1967–1968)
Linebackers coach
Oakland Raiders (1969–1978)
Head coach
Career highlights and awards
Super Bowl champion (XI)
AFL champion (1967)
PFW AFL Coach of the Year (1969)
Career NFL statistics
Win-loss record:	103–32–7
Winning %:	76.3
Playoff record:	9–7
Overall record:	112–39–7
Coaching stats at PFR
Pro Football Hall of Fame
John Earl Madden (born April 10, 1936) is an American former football coach and sportscaster. He won Super Bowl XI as head coach of the Oakland Raiders over the Minnesota Vikings, and after retiring from coaching became a well-known color commentator for NFL telecasts. In 2006, he was inducted into the Pro Football Hall of Fame in recognition of his coaching career. He is also widely known for the long-running Madden NFL video game series he has endorsed and fronted since 1988. Madden worked as a color analyst for all four major networks: CBS (1979–1993), Fox (1994–2001), ABC (2002–2005), and NBC (2006–2008). Madden retired from broadcasting after the 2008 NFL season to spend more time with his family.[1] He has also written several books and has served as a commercial pitchman for various products and retailers.


Contents
1	Early life
2	Playing career
3	Coaching career
3.1	College coaching
3.2	Professional coaching with the Oakland Raiders
3.3	Head coaching record
4	Media
4.1	Television
4.1.1	CBS Sports (1979–1993)
4.1.2	Fox Sports (1994–2001)
4.1.3	ABC Sports (2002–2005)
4.1.4	NBC Sports (2006–2008)
4.2	Radio
4.3	Film
4.4	Advertising
4.5	Madden NFL video games
4.6	All-Madden
5	Awards and honors
6	Personal life
6.1	Aversion to flying
7	See also
8	References
9	External links
Early life
John Madden was born in Austin, Minnesota, to Earl Madden and Mary Madden. His father, an auto mechanic, moved the Madden family to Daly City, California, a city immediately south of San Francisco, when John was young.[2] John attended Catholic parochial school with John Robinson[3] at Our Lady of Perpetual Help,[4] graduating in 1950,[5] and then Jefferson High School, graduating in 1954.[6][7][8][9]

Playing career
A football star in high school, Madden initially played one season at the College of San Mateo,[10] in 1954,[11] before he was given a football scholarship to the University of Oregon,[11][12][13] studying pre-law, and playing football with boyhood friend John Robinson.[14] He was redshirted because of a knee injury and had a knee operation. Then he attended the College of San Mateo[15] in 1955,[11][16] then Grays Harbor College playing in the fall of 1956,[17] before transferring to Cal Poly in San Luis Obispo, where he played both offense and defense for the Mustangs in 1957 and 1958[18][19] while earning a BS in education in 1959 and an MA in education in 1961.[20][21] He won all-conference honors[22] at offensive tackle, and was a catcher on Cal Poly's baseball team.[11] Madden was drafted in the 21st round (244th overall) by the NFL's Philadelphia Eagles in 1958, but in his first training camp suffered an injury on his other knee,[23] ending his playing career before he ever got a chance to play professionally.[18][12]

Coaching career
College coaching
Madden recounted how he became involved with coaching:

I got hurt in my rookie year with the Philadelphia Eagles — a knee injury — and I couldn't play. While I was rehabbing, Norm Van Brocklin would be watching films and would explain what was happening. I ended up with a degree in teaching and my love for football meshed with teaching.[24]

In 1960, he became an assistant coach at Allan Hancock College in Santa Maria, and was promoted to head coach in 1962. Following the 1963 season, he was hired as a defensive assistant coach at San Diego State, where he served through 1966. During that final campaign, the 1966 Aztecs were ranked among the top small colleges in the country. While at San Diego State, Madden coached under Don Coryell, whom Madden credits as being an influence on his coaching and who he feels will one day be included in the Hall of Fame.[18]

Professional coaching with the Oakland Raiders

This section of a biography of a living person needs additional citations for verification. Please help by adding reliable sources. Contentious material about living persons that is unsourced or poorly sourced must be removed immediately, especially if potentially libelous or harmful.
Find sources: "John Madden" – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR (April 2020) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)
Building on that success, Madden was hired by Al Davis as linebackers coach for the AFL's Oakland Raiders in 1967, putting him in the Sid Gillman coaching tree. He helped the team reach Super Bowl II that season. A year later, after Raiders head coach John Rauch resigned to take the same position with the Buffalo Bills, Madden was named the Raiders' head coach on February 4, 1969, becoming, at the age of 32, professional football's youngest head coach to that time. According to former Raiders coach Dennis Allen, John Madden was arguably the best Oakland Raiders coach in the history of the team.

Madden's Raiders reached and lost five AFC Championship games in seven years, which left the Raiders with the same image that the Dallas Cowboys had previously had—as a team unable to "win the big one." Despite a 12–1–1 mark in 1969, the team lost 17–7 to the Kansas City Chiefs in the final American Football League championship game. Three years later, what appeared to be a last-minute victory over the Steelers instead became a part of football lore when Franco Harris' "Immaculate Reception" gave Pittsburgh a 13–7 win. Then, in 1974, after defeating the two-time defending Super Bowl champion Miami Dolphins 28–26 in dramatic fashion, the Raiders lost to the Steelers 24–13 in the AFC Championship game. In 1975, the Raiders went 11–3 and lost again to the Steelers in the AFC Championship game by a score of 16–10.

In 1976, the Raiders went 13–1 in the regular season, and escaped the first round of the playoffs with a dramatic and controversial victory 24–21 over the New England Patriots. In the second round of the playoffs they defeated the Steelers 24-7 for the AFC Championship. On January 9, 1977, Madden's Raiders finally captured their first Super Bowl with a convincing 32–14 win over the Minnesota Vikings. The Raiders lost the AFC Championship Game in 1977 20–17 to the Denver Broncos. After the Raiders failed to qualify for the postseason in 1978, Madden announced his retirement on January 4, 1979, due to an increasingly deteriorating ulcer condition and occupational burnout.[25]

Among Madden's accomplishments as a head coach were winning a Super Bowl, and becoming the youngest coach to reach 100 career regular-season victories, a record he compiled in only ten full seasons of coaching at the age of 42. Madden is still the coach with the most wins in Raiders history.

Madden never had a losing season as a head coach. His overall winning percentage, including playoff games, ranks second in league history. Madden achieved his record during a period that included head coaches Tom Landry, Don Shula, Chuck Noll, and Bud Grant, who are generally regarded as the top coaches of that era.[26]

Head coaching record
Team	Year	Regular season	Postseason
Won	Lost	Ties	Win %	Finish	Won	Lost	Win %	Result
OAK	1969	12	1	1	.893	1st in AFL Western	1	1	.500	Lost to Kansas City Chiefs in AFL Championship
OAK	1970	8	4	2	.643	1st in AFC West	1	1	.500	Lost to Baltimore Colts in AFC Championship Game
OAK	1971	8	4	2	.643	2nd in AFC West	–	–	–	–
OAK	1972	10	3	1	.750	1st in AFC West	0	1	.000	Lost to Pittsburgh Steelers in Divisional Round
OAK	1973	9	4	1	.679	1st in AFC West	1	1	.500	Lost to Miami Dolphins in AFC Championship Game
OAK	1974	12	2	0	.857	1st in AFC West	1	1	.500	Lost to Pittsburgh Steelers in AFC Championship Game
OAK	1975	11	3	0	.786	1st in AFC West	1	1	.500	Lost to Pittsburgh Steelers in AFC Championship Game
OAK	1976	13	1	0	.929	1st in AFC West	3	0	1.000	Super Bowl XI champions
OAK	1977	11	3	0	.786	2nd in AFC West	1	1	.500	Lost to Denver Broncos in AFC Championship Game
OAK	1978	9	7	0	.563	2nd in AFC West	–	–	–	–
Total	103	32	7	.763		9	7	.563	
Media
Television
From 1979 through 2008, Madden worked as a color commentator/analyst on NFL games for all four major American television networks.

CBS Sports (1979–1993)
After working lower-profile contests for CBS during his first years, he was elevated to the network's top football broadcasting duo with Pat Summerall in 1981, replacing Tom Brookshier. Prior to teaming with Summerall on CBS, Madden was paired with a variety of announcers, such as Dick Stockton, Frank Glieber and Gary Bender. The team of Madden and Summerall would go on to call eight Super Bowls together (five for CBS and three for Fox). On occasions in which Summerall was unavailable (during the CBS years, Summerall was normally scheduled to commentate on the U.S. Open tennis tournament during the early weeks of the NFL season), Madden would team with the likes of Vin Scully[27] and subsequently, Verne Lundquist. On their final CBS telecast together (the NFC Championship Game on January 23, 1994), Madden told Summerall that while CBS may no longer have the NFL [for the time being--although CBS would eventually regain NFL rights in 1998 by outbidding NBC for the rights to AFC telecasts], at least they have the memories. On ABC's final Monday Night Football telecast in 2005, Madden used a similar choice of words.

Fox Sports (1994–2001)
When the Fox Network gained the rights to NFC games in 1994, CBS employees became free agents. Madden was the biggest star in football broadcasting, and Fox, ABC, and NBC made offers higher than the $2 million a year maximum for sportscaster salaries; NBC's owner General Electric offered to make Madden its "worldwide spokesman", and GE Rail would build for him a luxury train. After he almost joined ABC,[28] Madden and Summerall joined Fox's NFL coverage,[29] giving the network credibility to broadcast what Rupert Murdoch called "the crown jewel of all sports programming in the world". Madden's contract paid him more annually than any NFL player.[28] However, Fox was reportedly losing an estimated $4.4 billion on its NFL contract for the eight-year deal it signed in 1998, and it had been trying to cut programming costs as a result. Madden's Fox contract would have been worth $8 million for 2003.[30] His last job at Fox was for Super Bowl XXXVI in February 2002.

ABC Sports (2002–2005)
In 2002, Madden became a commentator on ABC's Monday Night Football, working with longtime play-by-play announcer Al Michaels. Madden reportedly made $5 million per year.[30]

NBC Sports (2006–2008)
In 2005, Dick Ebersol, president of NBC Sports, announced that Madden would provide color commentary for NBC's Sunday night NFL games, beginning with the 2006 season, making him the first sportscaster to have worked for all of the "Big Four" U.S. broadcast television networks. Madden also reached the milestone of calling the Super Bowl on all of the "Big Four" broadcast networks when he appeared on the 2009 broadcast of Super Bowl XLIII. On October 13, 2008, NBC announced that Madden would not be traveling to the October 19 Sunday Night Football Seattle Seahawks–Tampa Bay Buccaneers game in Tampa, Florida, marking the end of Madden's 476-weekend streak of consecutive broadcast appearances. Madden, who travels by bus, decided to take the week off because he had traveled from Jacksonville to San Diego, and would have had to go back to Florida before returning to his Northern California home. Madden was replaced by Football Night in America studio analyst Cris Collinsworth for the game,[31] and returned for the following telecast on November 2, 2008, in Indianapolis (until 2010 the NFL did not schedule Sunday night games for one week in October, so as not to overlap with the World Series taking place roughly around the same time). Madden called his final game on February 1, 2009, for Super Bowl XLIII between the Arizona Cardinals and the Pittsburgh Steelers. Madden announced his official retirement from the broadcasting booth on April 16, 2009.[1] He was replaced by former Cincinnati Bengals wide receiver Cris Collinsworth.[29]

Radio
John Madden got his start in broadcasting calling in to longtime San Francisco radio personality "The Emperor" Gene Nelson's show on station KYA in the 1970s while coach of the Raiders. He followed Nelson when he moved to station KSFO, and the call-ins continued even after Madden's coaching retirement. After Nelson's abrupt retirement in 1994, Madden began making appearances on KNBR.[32] In 1997, he began calling in to radio station KCBS five days a week at 8:15 a.m. Pacific Time. This continued through Thanksgiving 2015, when he ceased calling after heart surgery and other health concerns. He began making twice-weekly appearances on KCBS radio again in 2017, appearing Mondays and Fridays at 9:15 a.m. He stopped making regular radio call-ins in August 2018, citing a desire to remove any obligations from his schedule. KCBS named him "Senior Investigative At-Large Correspondent", indicating that he may occasionally call in again.[33] Through the years, Madden often took on a fantasy persona, discussing how he ran the Boston Marathon the day before the event to avoid the crowds or even discussions about taking part in the Alaskan Iditarod Trails Sled Dog race. Madden has also aired sports commentaries in syndication on the Westwood One radio network in the United States.

Film
Madden was briefly featured in the film Christine. Madden was seen coaching an American football team during a television broadcast.

Madden was also featured in the movie Little Giants. A bus full of NFL pros gets lost and happens to come across the kids looking for directions. Madden helps the team draw up the eventual game-winning play, "The Annexation of Puerto Rico", which was a version of a fumblerooski.

Madden also played himself as the broadcaster of the fictional games in the film The Replacements alongside his broadcast partner at the time Pat Summerall.

A film clip interview of Madden about De La Salle football coach Bob Ladouceur appears near the beginning of the end credits of the 2014 film When the Game Stands Tall.

On December 25, 2021, the Fox network will present All Madden, a documentary highlighting Madden's rise to stardom as a NFL coach and broadcaster. Former and current NFL players appear in the film, which premieres prior to a Christmas Day contest on Fox between the Cleveland Browns and Green Bay Packers in Green Bay.[34]

Advertising
Madden has appeared in a variety of radio and television commercials including Ace Hardware, Outback Steakhouse (the corporate sponsor of the Maddencruiser),[35] Verizon Wireless, Rent-A-Center, Miller Lite, Toyota, Sirius Satellite Radio and "Tough Actin" Tinactin.[36][1][28] In particular, the Miller beer advertisements cemented Madden's image in the public eye as a bumbling but lovable personality.[37]

Madden had a brief movie role playing himself in the 1994 youth football film Little Giants and in the 2000 film The Replacements. He appeared in a 1999 episode of The Simpsons, "Sunday, Cruddy Sunday". Madden also hosted an episode of NBC's Saturday Night Live in 1982 with musical guest Jennifer Holliday. As well, Madden was featured in the Irish band U2's music video for the song "Stuck in a Moment You Can't Get Out Of". In the video, Madden is commenting on a fake football game featuring Paul Hewson as the kicker who misses a short kick to win the game. He makes a similar appearance in the video for Paul Simon's 1972 single "Me and Julio Down by the Schoolyard",[38] in which he attempts to teach football fundamentals to a group of kids playing a pickup game.

He has also recorded radio and television public service announcements for a number of causes, including NBC/Ad Council's The More You Know in 2009 and Vascular Cures (formerly the Pacific Vascular Research Foundation) in Redwood City, California (based on the health experiences of his wife, Virginia Madden).

To minimize travel to studios, Madden built Goal Line Productions in Pleasanton, California,[39] a facility that is now managed by his son, Joe. The facility features a 7,000-square-foot (650 m2) sound stage, one of the largest in northern California.

Madden NFL video games
Main article: Madden NFL
John Madden has lent his voice, personality, and name to the Madden NFL series of football video games, published by EA Sports/Electronic Arts since 1988. Entries in the series have consistently been best-sellers, to the extent that they have even spawned TV shows featuring competition between players of the games. Despite Madden's retirement as a broadcaster in 2009, he still continues to lend his name and provide creative input to the series,[40] which is so popular that he is better known as the face of Madden than as a Super Bowl-winning coach and broadcaster.[41]

Madden views the game as an educational tool. During initial planning conversations with Electronic Arts founder Trip Hawkins in 1984, Madden envisioned the program as a tool for teaching and testing plays.[41][42] He stated in 2012 that Madden NFL was "a way for people to learn the game [of football] and participate in the game at a pretty sophisticated level".[43]

All-Madden
Of all those players, I think Jack Youngblood...personified the All-Madden team spirit...

—John Madden[44]
In 1984, Madden took the advice of NFL coach John Robinson—a friend of Madden since elementary school—and created the "All-Madden" team, a group of players who Madden thought represented football and played the game the way he thought it should be played.[45] Madden continued to pick the All-Madden team through the 2001 season when he left to move to ABC and Monday Night Football. Madden added his "Haul of Fame" for his favorite players,[46] he created a special 10th Anniversary All-Madden team in 1994, an All-Madden Super Bowl Team in 1997, and an All-Time All-Madden team in 2000. All Madden was also the title of Madden's third best-selling book (after Hey, Wait A Minute? I Wrote a Book and One Knee Equals Two Feet).[47]

In All Madden, Madden explained,

What does it mean to be 'All-Madden'? It's a whole range of things. For defensive linemen and linebackers, it's about Jack Youngblood playing with a busted leg, Lawrence Taylor wreaking havoc on the offense and Reggie White making the other guy wish he put a little more in the collection plate at church. It's about a guy who's got a dirty uniform, mud on his face and grass in the ear hole of his helmet.[48]

ABC Sports stated, "the All-Madden Team has become synonymous with greatness." Other NFL greats who have been on various All-Madden teams are Howie Long, Dan Hampton, Ronnie Lott,[49] Richard Dent,[49] Jackie Slater,[49] Andre Tippett, Kordell Stewart, Walter Payton,[49] Mark Bavaro,[49] and Bruce Smith.

Awards and honors
NFL

Super Bowl XI winner (as head coach of the Oakland Raiders)
Broadcasting

16-time Emmy Award winner[50]
1984 NSMA National Sportscaster of the Year
Yahoo! Sports Top 50 All Time Network Television Sports Announcers (#2).[51]
2002 Pete Rozelle Radio-Television Award winner.
Halls of Fame

Bay Area Sports Hall of Fame (class of 1991).[52]
Pro Football Hall of Fame (class of 2006)[53]
California Hall of Fame (class of 2009)
2010 NSMA Hall of Fame inductee
Personal life
Madden met his wife, Virginia Fields, in a bar in Pismo Beach, California,[23] marrying on December 26, 1959. They live in Pleasanton, California, and have two sons, Joseph and Michael. Joe played football at Brown University and Mike attended Harvard University, where he started as receiver on the football team.[54]

Madden's lively and flamboyant delivery has won him critical acclaim and fourteen Sports Emmy Awards for Outstanding Sports Event Analyst. His announcing style is punctuated with interjections such as "Boom!", "Whap!", "Bang!" and "Doink!"' and with his use of the telestrator, a device which allows him to superimpose his light-penned diagrams of football plays over video footage. Madden's use of the telestrator helped to popularize the technology, which has become a staple of television coverage of all sports.

Madden was also known for working the annual Thanksgiving Day games for CBS and later Fox. He would award a turkey or turducken to players of the winning team. He would also award a turkey drumstick to players of the winning team during the Thanksgiving Day game, often bringing out a "nuclear turkey" with as many as eight drumsticks on it for the occasion. The drumsticks served as an odd take on the "player of the game" award. Madden stopped announcing the Thanksgiving Day games after he moved to ABC in 2002, but the tradition continued. Fox, CBS, and the NFL Network present the Galloping Gobbler, the All-Iron Award, and the Pudding Pie Award, respectively, to the game's "Most Valuable" player.

Aversion to flying
Madden's aversion to flying is well known, although his fear was not realized until many years into his adult life. A Cal Poly graduate in 1958, he had lost people close to him in the October 29, 1960 California Polytechnic State University football team plane crash that claimed the lives of sixteen players, the team's student manager, and a football booster. However, it was not until 1979 that he had his first panic attack on a flight originating in Tampa, Florida. The details, nature and extent of this panic attack are not known. Madden, however, stated once in an interview that his fears were not about turbulence, flying, or heights, but primarily claustrophobia.[55] He also once noted that when he did fly, traveling all over the United States, it did not allow him to see anything.

During his Saturday Night Live hosting appearance in the early 1980s, a short film aired depicting Madden making the journey to New York to host SNL by train. In the mid-1980s Madden was a frequent rider on Amtrak's Lake Shore Limited;[56] Amtrak let the famous customer use the dining car at any time.[57] However, beginning in 1987, Greyhound bus lines supplied a custom MCI 102A3 bus and drivers for three years in exchange for advertising and speaking events. The bus was originally painted in Greyhound colors and drivers had to compete for the positions.[58] Madden traveled around the country in a customized coach-bus, which he has dubbed the Madden Cruiser. The Madden Cruiser shells are manufactured by Motor Coach Industries. The coach-bus sponsors over the years have included Walker Advantage Muffler and Outback Steakhouse.[35] The most recent coach, Madden's sixth, was built in 2005.

Madden never did commentary for the Pro Bowl, which was held in Honolulu during every year of his broadcasting career. Likewise, Madden never called any preseason game held outside of North America, even when his play-by-play partner was on the telecast. Madden found an unexpected use for his bus in New York after the September 11, 2001 attacks, when he provided transportation for former ice-skating champion Peggy Fleming, whose flight home to Los Gatos, California, had been grounded.[59] In contrast to Madden's aversion to flying, his wife Virginia has taken flying lessons.[60]

See also
Bay Area Sports Hall of Fame
The Sea of Hands
Ghost to the Post
Holy Roller (American football)
List of American Football League players
Madden Most Valuable Protectors Award
List of National Football League head coaches with 50 wins
List of Super Bowl head coaches

Pat Summerall
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Jump to navigationJump to search
Pat Summerall
refer to caption
Summerall in 2008
No. 21, 88
Position:	Placekicker
Personal information
Born:	May 10, 1930
Lake City, Florida
Died:	April 16, 2013 (aged 82)
Dallas, Texas
Height:	6 ft 4 in (1.93 m)
Weight:	228 lb (103 kg)
Career information
High school:	Columbia (Lake City, Florida)
College:	Arkansas
NFL Draft:	1952 / Round: 4 / Pick: 45
Career history
Detroit Lions (1952)
Chicago Cardinals (1953–1957)
New York Giants (1958–1961)
Career highlights and awards
NFL champion (1952)
Career NFL statistics
Field goals attempted:	212
Field goals made:	100
Field goal percentage:	47.2
Longest field goal:	50
Extra points:	257/265 (97.0%)
Player stats at NFL.com
George Allen "Pat" Summerall (May 10, 1930 – April 16, 2013) was an American football player and television sportscaster who worked for CBS, Fox, and ESPN. In addition to football, he announced major golf and tennis events. Summerall announced 16 Super Bowls on network television (more than anyone else), 26 Masters Tournaments, and 21 US Opens.[1] He contributed to 10 Super Bowl broadcasts on CBS Radio as a pregame host or analyst.

Summerall played football for the Arkansas Razorbacks and then in the National Football League (NFL) from 1952 through 1961. He was drafted by the Detroit Lions and played with Bobby Layne. His best playing years were as a kicker with the New York Giants. In 1962 he joined CBS as a color commentator. He worked with Tom Brookshier and then John Madden on NFL telecasts[2] for CBS and Fox. Retiring after the 2002 NFL season, he occasionally announced games, especially those near his Texas home.

Summerall was named the National Sportscaster of the Year by the National Sportscasters and Sportswriters Association in 1977, and inducted into its Hall of Fame in 1994. That year, he also received the Pete Rozelle Radio-Television Award from the Pro Football Hall of Fame. He was inducted into the American Sportscasters Association Hall of Fame in 1999. The "Pat Summerall Award" has been presented since 2006 during Super Bowl weekend at the NFL's headquarters hotel "to a deserving recipient who through their career has demonstrated the character, integrity and leadership both on and off the job that the name Pat Summerall represents."

At Columbia High School, Lake City, Florida, Summerall played football, tennis, baseball, and basketball.[3] Basketball was his favorite sport, he was recognized as an All-State selection in basketball and football.[4] He was inducted into the FHSAA Hall of Fame and was later named to the FHSAA's All-Century Team.

College
Summerall played college football from 1949 to 1951 at the University of Arkansas, where he played defensive end, tight end, and placekicker positions for the Arkansas Razorbacks. He graduated in 1953 majoring in Russian history, according to CBS News.[citation needed]

Professional

Summerall on a 1955 Bowman football card
Summerall spent ten years as a professional football player in the National Football League, primarily as a placekicker. The Detroit Lions drafted Summerall as a fourth-round draft choice in the 1952 NFL Draft.[5] Summerall played the pre-season with the Lions before breaking his arm, which ended the year for him.[6] After that season, he was traded and went on to play for the Chicago Cardinals from 1953 to 1957 and the New York Giants from 1958 to 1961, during which he was a part of The Greatest Game Ever Played. His best professional year statistically was 1959, when Summerall scored 90 points on 30-for-30 (100%) extra-point kicking and 20-for-29 (69%) field goal kicking.[citation needed]

Summerall's most memorable professional moment may well have been at the very end of the December 14, 1958 regular-season finale between his Giants and the Cleveland Browns at Yankee Stadium. Going into the game, the Browns were in first place in the Eastern Conference, holding a one-game lead over the second-place Giants. In that era, there was no overtime during regular-season games, standings ties were broken by a playoff, and there were no wild-card teams. This meant that only the Eastern Conference champion would qualify for the NFL Championship Game to be held two weeks later, and it meant that the Giants had to win just to force a tiebreaker playoff game. The Browns, on the other hand, needed only a tie to clinch the Eastern championship. As time was running out, the Giants and Browns were tied, 10–10, a situation that, as indicated, favored the Browns. The Giants got barely into Cleveland territory, then sent out Summerall to try for a tiebreaking 49-yard field goal. To add to the drama, there were swirling winds and snow. Summerall, a straight-ahead kicker, made the field goal with just two minutes to play, keeping the Giants alive for another week (they defeated Cleveland a week later, 10–0, in the Eastern Conference tiebreaker playoff before losing the sudden-death league championship final to Baltimore the week after that).

The Giants' offensive coach, Vince Lombardi, was against sending Summerall in[7] (Summerall missed a 31-yard attempt a few minutes earlier), then gleefully greeted Summerall as he came off the field, "You son of a bitch, you can’t kick it that far!"[8][9] Sports Illustrated ran the story as one of its primary articles the next week, with a leading photograph showing the football heading between the uprights through the snow.[10] His last professional game was the December 31, 1961 NFL Championship Game held at Lambeau Field in Green Bay, Wisconsin. Lombardi's Green Bay Packers defeated Summerall's Giants, 37–0, holding New York to just six first downs. Summerall was not a factor in that game.[citation needed]

The urban legend was his nickname became "Pat" because of the abbreviation for "point after touchdown" that a field-goal kicker was credited for in a game summary. But in a 1997 Dallas Morning News story, Summerall said after his parents divorced, he was taken in by an aunt and uncle who had a son named Mike. "My aunt and uncle just started calling me Pat to go with their Mike", Summerall would say, referencing frequently named characters in Irish jokes told during that time.[11]

Broadcasting career
In the early 1960s, Summerall was the morning host on WCBS (AM) radio in New York City. He left the job when WINS went all-news in 1965. He also co-hosted the syndicated NFL Films series This Week in Pro Football in the late 1960s and early 1970s. Summerall was also associated with a production company in Dallas from about 1998 through 2005 which was called Pat Summerall Productions. He was featured in and hosted various production shows, such as Summerall Success Stories and Champions of Industry. These qualified production segments would air on the Fox News Channel and later, CNN Headline News. During the mid-1990s, Summerall hosted the "Summerall-Aikman" Cowboys report with quarterback Troy Aikman. Summerall served as the host of Sports Stars of Tomorrow and Future Phenoms, two nationally syndicated high school sports shows based out of Fort Worth, Texas.[citation needed] Following their dismissal of announcer Harry Caray in 1969, the St. Louis Cardinals baseball team considered hiring Summerall to be their new radio voice.

After retiring from football, Summerall was hired by CBS Sports in 1962 to work as a color commentator on the network's NFL coverage. CBS initially paired Summerall with Chris Schenkel on Giants games; three years later he shifted to working with Jim Gibbons on Washington Redskins games. In 1968, after CBS abandoned the practice of assigning dedicated announcing crews to particular NFL teams, Summerall ascended to the network's lead national crew, pairing with Jack Buck and then Ray Scott. For the postgame coverage of the very first Super Bowl at the end of the 1967 season (which was simulcast by CBS and NBC), the trophy presentation ceremony was handled by CBS' Summerall (who worked as a reporter, while CBS' game coverage was called by Ray Scott, Jack Whitaker and Frank Gifford) and NBC's George Ratterman. Summerall and Ratterman were forced to share a single microphone.[citation needed]

In 1969, Summerall took part in NBC's coverage of Super Bowl III. NBC used Summerall to provide an "NFL perspective" on the coverage. This was due in part to the fact that NBC was at the time, the network television provider of the American Football League (whereas CBS was the network television provider for the pre-merger National Football League). In return, for CBS Radio's coverage of Super Bowls I, II and IV, they used Tom Hedrick, normally the radio voice of the Kansas City Chiefs, to provide an "AFL perspective" for their coverage.[citation needed]

Midway through the 1974 NFL season, CBS shifted Summerall from color to play-by-play. The network's #1 NFL crew now consisted of Summerall and analyst Tom Brookshier[12] (with whom he had previously worked on This Week in Pro Football), and the colorful Summerall-Brookshier duo worked three Super Bowls (X, XII, and XIV) together. Summerall, Brookshier, NFL on CBS producer Bob Wussler, and Miami Dolphins owner Joe Robbie appeared as themselves during the 1977 film Black Sunday, which was filmed on location at the Orange Bowl in Miami during Super Bowl X.[citation needed]

In 1981, Summerall was teamed with former Oakland Raiders coach John Madden, a pairing that would last for 22 seasons on two networks and become one of the most well-known partnerships in TV sportscasting history. Summerall and Madden were first teamed on a November 25, 1979 broadcast of a Minnesota Vikings–Tampa Bay Buccaneers game.[13] While the two were paired on CBS, they called Super Bowls XVI, XVIII, XXI, XXIV, and XXVI together. It is often mistakenly assumed that Summerall and Madden handled the call on CBS-TV for the 1981 NFC Championship Game, when San Francisco 49ers wide receiver Dwight Clark made "The Catch" to lift the 49ers to a 28–27 victory over the Dallas Cowboys and a berth in Super Bowl XVI. Instead, CBS' #2 broadcast team of Vin Scully[14] and Hank Stram handled the broadcast while Madden was given the weekend off to travel to Pontiac, Michigan for the game and to prepare for the broadcast. Since Stram was Jack Buck's color commentator on CBS Radio, Summerall substituted for Stram as Buck's partner; this was the first time Buck and Summerall had called a game together since 1974, when then-lead color commentator Summerall was moved off of Buck's team to become CBS television's lead play-by-play voice for the NFL.[citation needed] Like his predecessor, Ray Scott, Summerall was a minimalist (e.g.: Montana back to throw...Rice...Touchdown, San Francisco.), and also referred to teams by their city, only referring to them by their nicknames very seldomly.

During the 1982 NFL strike, CBS' NCAA football contract required the network to show four Division III games. CBS initially intended to show those games on Saturday afternoons, with only the interested markets receiving the broadcasts. However, with no NFL games to show on Sunday, October 3, 1982, due to the strike, CBS decided to show all of its NCAA Division III games on a single Sunday afternoon in front of a mass audience. CBS used its regular NFL crews (Pat Summerall and John Madden at Wittenberg–Baldwin–Wallace, Tom Brookshier and Wayne Walker at West Georgia–Millsaps, Tim Ryan and Johnny Morris at Wisconsin–Oshkosh – Wisconsin–Stout, and Dick Stockton and Roger Staubach at San Diego–Occidental) and showed The NFL Today instead of using their regular college football broadcasters.[clarification needed]

Summerall's stature as pro football's premier television broadcaster was a result of two things: first, his ability to play the "straight man" alongside John Madden's lively, verbose persona; second, his economical delivery that magnified the drama of a moment while allowing the pictures and his baritone-like voice to tell the story. His style was closely modeled on that of his predecessor as CBS's main NFL announcer, Ray Scott, also known for his minimalist style. One of Summerall's most memorable on-air calls was his account of Marcus Allen's electrifying touchdown run in Super Bowl XVIII.

Here's Marcus Allen, cutting back upfield. And Marcus Allen could be gone! 74 yards for Marcus Allen!

That the call is memorable despite its sparseness is testament to the weight of Summerall's voice when he was at the height of his powers as an NFL broadcaster. This was a hallmark of his broadcasting career. For example, he usually called a Joe Montana to Jerry Rice touchdown pass with simple calls like "Montana......Rice.... Touchdown!"

His last game alongside Madden for CBS (before the NFC television contract moved over to Fox) was the 1993 NFC Championship Game (which saw the Dallas Cowboys defeat the San Francisco 49ers in Irving, Texas to go to Super Bowl XXVIII against the Buffalo Bills in Atlanta).

Other CBS Sports assignments
Summerall also covered other events such as ABA[15] for CBS during this period. Through 1966, he hosted a morning drive-time music/talk program for WCBS-AM radio in New York.

Summerall also broadcast PGA Tour golf tournaments on CBS, including the Masters Tournament,[16] as well as the US Open of tennis, during his tenure at CBS with Tony Trabert, and he was the play-by-play announcer for the 1974 NBA Finals (working alongside Rick Barry and Rod Hundley), CBS' first season broadcasting the NBA on CBS. In 1975, Summerall hosted the Pan American Games in Mexico, and in 1976 he teamed with Tom Brookshier to call some heavyweight boxing matches for CBS.[17]

Summerall broadcast his first Masters in 1968, when he anchored the coverage at hole 18. In 1983, Summerall replaced Vin Scully (who had left CBS to work for NBC on their Major League Baseball and golf coverage) in the 18th hole tower role (a role that Scully was in since 1975). Summerall's broadcast partner during this period was Ken Venturi.

From 1969–1973, Summerall broadcast CBS' National Invitation Tournament coverage with Don Criqui. In 1985, Summerall once again called college basketball, working NCAA men's tournament games for CBS with Larry Conley.

In 1970, Summerall and then-Boston Bruins' TV announcer Don Earle did a short postgame segment from inside the team's dressing room at the end of CBS' coverage of the fourth (and what turned out to be the final) game of the 1970 Stanley Cup Finals. WSBK-38, the Bruins' TV flagship at the time, simulcast the CBS coverage and did a longer post-game locker-room segment after CBS' coverage ended. After Bobby Orr scored the championship-winning goal after just 40 seconds, so the story went, Summerall turned to Bobby's father, Doug Orr (who was reportedly, too nervous to go back to his seat from the Bruins' dressing room for the start of overtime) and yelled over the crowd in the stands above "Mr. Orr, your son has scored and Boston has won the Stanley Cup!" Doug Orr is said to have told Summerall "I know Boston scored, but we didn't see it! What makes you think my son scored?" Summerall supposedly replied "Because they wouldn't be yelling this loudly if (Phil) Esposito (another high-scoring Boston player of the era) had scored!"[citation needed]

Summerall also called at least one Professional Bowlers Association event, which was the 1975 Brunswick World Open.[18]

On April 15, 1987, Summerall did color commentary alongside Steve Stone[19] for a Chicago Cubs–Pittsburgh Pirates baseball game on WGN-TV. This was during time period in which the Cubs' normal television announcer, Harry Caray, was recovering from a stroke. Thus, for about the first two months of the 1987 season, WGN featured a series of celebrity guest announcers on game telecasts while Caray recuperated.[20]

He also broadcast the US Open Tennis Tournament for CBS with Tony Trabert for 25 years.

Summerall's last on-air assignment for CBS Sports was the 1994 Masters Tournament. Summerall signed off the broadcast thus, surrounded by the other CBS commentators that were working the tournament:

So, on behalf of our entire broadcast group, for the last time, I'm Pat Summerall saying [to the others] "So long"? [the other commentators speak all at once, wishing Pat well] Thanks, guys. [to the audience] I'll miss you.

In 1994, the Fox network surprised NFL fans by outbidding CBS for the NFC broadcast package. One of the network's first moves was to hire Summerall and Madden as its lead announcing team. While at Fox, the pair called Super Bowls XXXI, XXXIII, and XXXVI together. The long-time partnership ended after Super Bowl XXXVI in early 2002, as Summerall had announced he would be retiring from announcing and Madden's contract had expired.

Here comes one of greater importance if he makes it. And it's right down the pipe. Adam Vinatieri...no time on the clock and the Patriots have won Super Bowl XXXVI. Unbelievable.

— Summerall's final Super Bowl call, Adam Vinatieri's game winning field goal on February 3, 2002.
Summerall was lured out of retirement and re-signed with Fox for the 2002 season because Ray Bentley was let go. However, since Madden had left to take over the color commentator position on Monday Night Football from Dan Fouts and Dennis Miller for ABC and Fox had promoted Joe Buck to be its number one NFL play-by-play voice (Buck was initially partnered with Cris Collinsworth and, since 2004, Troy Aikman, who both replaced Madden as Fox's lead NFL color commentators), Summerall was paired with Brian Baldinger on regional telecasts. Most of the games Summerall covered featured the Dallas Cowboys, due in part to his residency in the city. One of the games Summerall called was the Cowboys' game against the Seattle Seahawks at Texas Stadium, in which Emmitt Smith broke Walter Payton's career rushing yardage record. Summerall was joined by Daryl Johnston, who at the time was working as Fox's #2 color man with Dick Stockton and who was a longtime teammate of Smith's with the Cowboys, for this game.[citation needed]

Summerall retired again following the 2002 season but in 2006, he served as a substitute for Kenny Albert alongside Baldinger for the Week 8 (October 29) game between the eventual NFC champion Chicago Bears and the San Francisco 49ers.[21] Summerall returned for one game the following year to take Stockton's place alongside Baldinger and provide the play-by-play for the December 9, 2007 game between the Cincinnati Bengals and St. Louis Rams in Cincinnati.

From 2007 until 2010, Summerall appeared as the play-by-play voice of the network's coverage of the Cotton Bowl Classic game. Summerall teamed with Brian Baldinger on the 2007–09 Cotton Bowl Classic telecasts, and worked with Daryl Johnston on the 2010 game (his final play-by-play assignment of any kind) between Ole Miss and Oklahoma State. In 2011, Summerall appeared on the pregame coverage of the Cotton Bowl.

See also: Cotton Bowl broadcasters
Post-Fox
In the 2000s, Summerall provided voiceover sponsorship credits for the CBS Masters golf telecasts, and voice-overs for game coverage on NFL Network. He also provided game commentary for the Golden Tee Golf video game series and narrated the first episode of the WrestleMania Rewind series for the WWE Network (a role that would be assumed by Gary Thorne upon Summerall's death).

NFL on ESPN
See also: ESPN Sunday Night Football
Summerall called several preseason and early regular-season NFL games for the ESPN network in 2004, substituting for regular announcer Mike Patrick while the latter recovered from heart surgery.

Sports Stars of Tomorrow
As previously mentioned, Summerall hosted this syndicated program dedicated to high school and collegiate athletics from 2005 to 2012. Charles Davis assumed hosting duties in 2012.

Awards and honors
The National Sportscasters and Sportswriters Association named Summerall National Sportscaster of the Year in 1977, and inducted him into its Hall of Fame in 1994. Summerall was the 1994 recipient of the Pete Rozelle Radio-Television Award, bestowed by the Pro Football Hall of Fame "for longtime exceptional contributions to radio and television in professional football". In 1999, he was inducted into the American Sportscasters Association Hall of Fame.[22]

Since 2006, the "Pat Summerall Award" has been presented at the annual Legends for Charity Luncheon given on Super Bowl weekend at the NFL's headquarters hotel in the host city. The award is given "to a deserving recipient who through their career has demonstrated the character, integrity and leadership both on and off the job that the name Pat Summerall represents." Recipients have included James Brown (2006), Greg Gumbel (2007), Jim Nantz (2008), Chris Berman (2009), Cris Collinsworth (2010), the entire Fox NFL crew (2011), Al Michaels (2012), Archie Manning (2013), Michael Strahan (2014), Joe Buck (2015), John Madden (2016), Rich Eisen (2017) and Tony Dungy (2018).[23][24]

Health issues
During the 1990 season, Summerall was hospitalized with a bleeding ulcer after vomiting on a plane during a flight after a Bears–Redskins game, and was out for a considerable amount of time. While Verne Lundquist replaced Summerall on games with Madden, Jack Buck (who was at CBS during the time as the network's lead Major League Baseball announcer) was added as a regular NFL broadcaster to fill-in.

In the spring of 2004, Summerall, a recovering alcoholic, underwent a liver transplant.[1] Summerall at one point preached a sermon at Travis Avenue Baptist Church in Ft. Worth, Texas. He also was a featured speaker at the Men's Gideon Conference in Tuscaloosa, Alabama, in which he related his giving his life to Christ during his stay at the Betty Ford Clinic during his recovery from alcoholism.[citation needed]

In 2006, Pat Summerall underwent cataract surgery, and had an intraocular lens implanted.[25]

In January 2008, Summerall had a hip replacement surgery. On June 19, 2008, he was hospitalized for internal bleeding caused by a new medicine he was taking.[26]

Death
Summerall checked into St. Paul University Hospital in Dallas, Texas, for surgery on a broken hip.[1] He died there on April 16, 2013, of cardiac arrest at age 82.[27] After his death, Jerry Jones referred to Summerall as "royalty in the broadcast booth" while Madden called him "a great broadcaster and a great man" and added that "Pat Summerall is the voice of football and always will be."[28] Fellow broadcasters Jim Nantz and Verne Lundquist also made statements on Summerall's life.[1]

A few days later, CBS Sports presented a tribute to Summerall during their coverage of the RBC Heritage golf event. Nantz and Gary McCord presented highlights of his life and career – both as a player and at CBS – ending with his 1994 Masters sign-off.[29] During a Fox NASCAR broadcast, Chris Myers paid tribute to Summerall on behalf of Fox.

Summerall was interred at the Dallas–Fort Worth National Cemetery.

Outside sports broadcasting
For many years Summerall was a commercial spokesperson for True Value, often ending advertisements with his tag line "and tell 'em Pat Summerall sent you".[30] Ironically, his long-time broadcast partner Madden was the spokesperson for Ace Hardware, True Value's main competitor in the independent hardware store market. Summerall served as the longtime radio spokesman for the Dux Beds company, a Swedish maker of mattresses, and its "Duxiana" stores.

Summerall started doing work as a commentator for the Madden NFL video game franchise in the game John Madden Football '92. His voice was subsequently featured in all the games in the Madden franchise from 1994–2002.[31]

Summerall also provided commentary, alongside Madden, on Cartoon Network's annual Super Bowl parodies, The Big Game, from 1998 through 2001.

Summerall was name-checked on The Simpsons in the episode "Springfield Up", where his caricature and name appear on the cover of a book held by Homer Simpson titled "Smut Yuks." Summerall and his partner John Madden also appeared in (and lent their voices to) the Simpsons episode "Sunday, Cruddy Sunday", which premiered following the duo's broadcast of Super Bowl XXXIII on Fox in 1999, and on the same night Summerall appeared on the Family Guy premiere episode "Death Has a Shadow". The pair was also featured in the movie The Replacements, calling the games of the Washington Sentinels on their run to the playoffs. Summerall is referenced in the Season 4 Gilmore Girls episode, "The Lorelais' First Day at Yale."

Summerall appeared in the music video for Forever the Sickest Kids' 2010 single "She Likes (Bittersweet Love)".

History of the New York Giants (1925–1978)
